# Vault Integration

### Vault Integration for Key Management and Rotation

In order for different institutions to manage their own encryption keys, we move beyond static or local storage methods and integrate with HashiCorp Vault. This enables centralized key storage, version tracking, controlled ownership of keys, and auditable key lifecycle management.

### Purpose of Vault Integration

The initial proof of concept we introduced earlier demonstrated that block storage can be encrypted using Kubernetes, an operator, and LUKS. However, this does not provide the level of governance, auditability, and controlled life cycle required in a Trusted Research Environment.
The Vault integration was therefore introduced to address three requirements:

- centralized key storage
- controlled key rotation
- secure deletion of keys when volumes are destroyed

### Implementation Design

Every encrypted volume uses the KV v2 secrets engine in HashiCorp Vault, following a tenancy-aware path structure: `/secret/tenants/<institution>/luks-key/<volume-name>`.

When a new volume is created, the Operator checks if a key exists for that volume and if not it creates one using a new 256-bits value using `secrets.token_hex(32)` and stores it in vault. This creates a unique per volume key while allowing key ownership to be separated from storage backends.

A design decision was made for initial key per volume to be generated by the Operator but **the user is required to replace** the initial key with their own value in the Vault UI. This is to ensure that each institution manage the ownership of their keys rather than being managed by the platform owner.
